---
layout: post
title: "On G1 GC"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [jvm, interview]
---

### Concepts
* Collet Set(CSet): collecatable-region set. Survivors in the CSet will be moved to antoher region. LT 1% of heap size
* Remembmered Set(RS): RS records Points-into,i.e., object references in other regions that use this region's objects. It is a (region address, set of card table index) hashtable
* Snapshot-At-The-Beginning (SATB): previous bitmap and next bitmap 
* Eviction failure (EF): new gen not able to find regions to accept survivors

* jdk9 default, separate heap into same size regions. Mostly mark-compact
* Each block can be one of Eden/Survivor/Old. Note that new gen will still do recycle/promotion when it is full.
* New gen GC will STW,and copy to survivor or old gen
* Designed to handle cases where stop-the-world is unacceptable,e.g., HFT.
* Humogous Object goes directly to old gen, may use mutliple continous regions to hold it
* Why G1 over CMS? CMS may have memory frags, and may have floating garbage?


### Steps (for mixed GC)
* Initital Marking (IM)
  * concurrently clean up next marking bitmap, 
  * pause all user threads, and scan and tag all DIRECTLY reachable objects from root in each region
  * Put the top value to the next top at mark start(TAMS)
  * resume all user threads 
  * Root region scan - G1 scans survivor regions, and mark all referenced objects
* Concurrent Marking
  * scan based on the objects found in IM
  * Use remembered set logs to track what is object relationship is changed concurrently
* Final marking pause
  * process RSL and update RS.
  * process SATB logs 
* Live Data Counting and Cleanup
  * Note that the cleanup trigger time is based on max gc pause allowed and a few other steps 


### Optimization & Tuning
* Goal is to avoid full gc and EF
* Don't set NewRatio yourself
* Prioritize maxGCPauseMillis (default 200 ms) instead of configing others
* Default Heap space reachs 45% usage will trigger concurrent 

