---
layout: post
title: "On Refactoring" 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [architecture]
---

1. For module-level refactoring, need to designate which should change, which should be handled by compatible logics. Keep the change scope to within one day

2. Project level refactoring - should not go in parallel with day-to-day requirments dev. Use a mock refactoring to discover potential depenedency problem, and refactoring them in day-to-day devs. Finally, halt dev for 2-3 days and focus on project refactoring.

3. between requirments, do module level refactoring, including breaking down big modules, add helper types and unit tests etc 

4. Refactor only part change often, because refactoring is for maintainability. This means refactoring rarely-changed code gives little benefit and most likely doesn't outweigh the cost. Espcially a lot of such legacy codes are hard to maintain and extend

5. Refactor as little as possible (change ONLY what you need), and unit test is basis for refactoring

6. starting very coarse-grained end-to-end test, and gradually add more, finer-grained tests -> small, incremental code changeds to increase code quality

7. To solve branch conflicts, use feature flag to hide development in progress

8. Open to extension, close to changes, because changing existing code is easy to introduce new bug

9. Refactor code to be extended, let existing unit tests cover that (only change code), and then enhance with TDD (only add code)

10. Refactoring across services is hard. Options:

	a. Don't do it - perfectly valid

	b. One big version change

	c. Long term ownership can't be ambigious. Build a temp team to build the third service - Conway's law


11. avoid unit test and end to end test => probably focus on API level test, i.e., the middle layer in between EtoE and unit tests. Can be done from within the process with embedded DB. Focus more on the user scenario than code logic



