---
layout: post
title: "On Emotion Control " 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [pm]
---

1. When you enter "fight or flight" mode, you are losing the ability of thinking rationally. Also, your counterpart will sense your emotion and start feeling similar way
2. Common sign is that your muscle gets tense too. You should start deep breathing - inhale through nose for 5 seconds, hole for a moment, and then exhale. Note this technique is common in fast-sleeping methods too.
3. Standing up and walking around helps activiating thinking part of the brain
4. Come up with a neutral phase to remind yourself to stay calm
5. Trying separating thoughts and emotion. This distances yourself from feelings and helps understand WHY you feel this way
6. Take a break, and give up a neutral reason to stand up and pause conversation
7. Let the other side vent. Be empathetic and not defensive
8. Fake your emotions sparsingly because it is hugely draining, i.e., only when you know your current emotion is really imappropriate for the current scenario
9. To get out of the negative emotion, change environment and switch focus if possible. Disconnet from outside world - cut off interruptions and noises
10. If you have a hard time getting out of negative emotion, try delaying your reaction as much as you can


#### Refereces
* [How to Control Your Emotions During a Difficult Conversation](http://hbr.org/2017/12/how-to-control-your-emotions-during-a-difficult-conversation)
* [How faking your feelings at work can be damaging](http://www.bbc.com/capital/story/20180619-why-suppressing-anger-at-work-is-bad)


