---
layout: post
title: "Codeforces Notes"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [codeforces]
---

895B - XK Segments
---------
1. suppose we have a range (L, R), then the exact number is R/x - (L-1)/x. I had problem coming up with formula during the contest!!! Should be easy to come up with if we view it from the delta band persepctive

2. Therefore, given x, k, we know the range of R, and we can bsearch on the left and right part of the array, and we take distance as number of js in the form of (j, i)

My (wrong) approach during the contest
-------------
1. calcualte # of coordinates s.t. no more than k number divisible by x in the segment

2. calculate the segment length, but with k - 1

3. calcualte the difference

The idea did not work => we didn't consider the case (i, j) where i > j, and a(i) = a(j). This may happen if we have a band of equvalents, and k happens to be 0 or 1!!!

Implmentaton-wise, normally two-pointer needs two checks, 1 for index, one for predicate. because it is a while on and solution, we need to explicitly check for out of bound/invalid case.

895C - Square Subsets
--------
I got the bitmask idea - need a bit mast to mark the state of products => which primes have odd numbers. However, the answer will be 2^19^n which is still too high. 

Instead of iterating on index i, we can just iterating on the value of numbers, since it is < 70!!! We will check how many ways to get a product with odd number of primes in the subsequence of 1...70

i.e., 
ways(n + 1, oldbm) += ways(n, oldbm) *  sum of(choose(num(n), even times))
ways(n + 1, oldbm XOR bitmask of n) += ways(n, oldbm) * choose(num(n), odd times)

893D - Credit Card
---------
How do we calculate the exact amount we need to fill at each step?

If we have to fill a card, we need to fill it s.t. at least one suffix sum of which has to become d. Because otherwise, we will overflow at some point, so we just try the best possbile.

To calcualte to potential maximal to the right, we need to 
1. precompute the sum of all deltas,

2. scan from right to left, to keep track of max delta so far

3. also keep track of fills we have done so far, at each point we need to fill, the max we can fill is d - maxDelta - deltaSofar. If deltaSofar + ps[i] < 0, we know it is invalid


Round 19: Cities Robbery
---------
four cases:
1. go straight to left

2. go straight to right

3. left and then right

4. right and then left.

We can use either set.upper_bound() or a two-pointer approach


Round 19: Smallest Array Permutation
---------
1. If one # appears > ceil(N/2) times => we have no solution

2. If one # appears = ceil(N/2) times => we have to use this number ONLY IF IT IS ODD!!!

3. Otherwise, we use the minimum number. Can use a heap to keep track of current maximum. Note that the official solution does not use a heap!!!
