---
layout: post
title: "Coding set 1" 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [interview, coding]
---

All space requirements here include the stack space for recursive call

* A list of rectangles with edges parallels to x-y axis and wanted to find the overlap between all of them, if there was one? 
* Check if a binary tree is a BST. input tree has duplication. int.Min and int.Max could be part of the value
* Second largest item in a BST. O(h) time, O(1) space
* Write an efficient function that tells us whether or not an input string's openers and closers are properly nested, including {,(, ['s AND quotes (")
* Given a list of n+ 1 numbers, each within [1, n], find one integer that appears more than once.
  * Variation 1: returns all duplicates instead of one of them. What is the best we can do
  * Variation 2: O(n) run time with space still O(1), do this without destroying input. Two ways
* You have a function rand7() that generates a random integer from 1 to 7. Use it to write a function rand5() that generates a random integer from 1 to 5. O(1) 
  * Follow-up: implement rand7() with rand5(). 
  * Follow-up: prove why deterministic run time is not possible
* Given an undirected graph with maximum degree D, find a graph node coloring using at most D+1 colors, so that no adjacent nodes have the same color

### [871. Minimum Number of Refueling Stops](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-refueling-stops/submissions/)
* Multiple ideas

### [493. Reverse Pairs](https://leetcode.com/submissions/detail/341479345/)
* Many corner cases

### [4. Median of Two Sorted Arrays](https://leetcode.com/submissions/detail/356156488/)
* Many corner cases. My first insight is sightly off and introduced even more cases
* Related [295. Find Median from Data Stream](https://leetcode.com/submissions/detail/361113610/)
  * My first attempt tries to over-optimize and missed a corner case
