---
layout: post
title: "Web Crawler Design with Akka - from Reactive Programming on Coursera" 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [akka]
---

### Scenario ###
	* A crawler that accepts requests, for each request, recursively traverse all links and report back
	* We need to put a limit on how deep we can traverse
	* There should be no duplicate in returned linkes, i.e., our logic needs to handle duplicate links in descendants

### Design actors ###
	* From known: need an actor to accept incoming request message
	* From unknown: according to the error kernel pattern, we need a actor that does heavy lifting and NOHTING else - Getter actor in course notes
	* From condition: how to use the heavy-lifting Getter actor? We need an actor to do the coordinate work, i.e., tell Getter which URL to fetch. In the error kernel pattern, this actor handles the state as well, i.e., this actor should have information to decide if the returned result is duplication or not - Controller in course notes. Note this controller should handle state of only 1 request => we will just spawn more Controller actors instead of mixing states between requests
	* Therefore, it is the job of our first step actor to handle concurrent requests - Receptionist in class notes

### Detailed design: Getter ###
	* Since a Getter just fetchs one URL (Controller takes care of scheduling), we can accept target URL as ctor arg and start the async process during init, and pipe the future to itself. Lesson here is that reactive paradigm must be here from top to bottom
	* When the request is done, Getter will parse the result, and send next links to explore to the Controller, which will schedule it. Note that we have the level constraint, therefore, Getter will need to know which level it is at, otherwise, controller can not tell from which level the response is from.
	* In error kernel pattern, the heavy-lifter has to know how to shutdown gracefully in the prsencse of failure, since failure case is no longer exception.In the case of fetch failure or parent tells to shutdown,i.e., tell the parent it is done and then context.stop(self)
	
### Detailed design: Controller ###
	* How to return the result? Controller maintains a set to avoid duplicate and store final result. Every time it gets a reply, Controller will check it against the set. This set will be var of immutable type, because we will send it to other actors
	* When is the process done? When we can no longer spawn new Getters and current working queue is empty,i.e., Controler needs to maintain a Getter set and maintain it as new links are discovered by Getter
	* When Controller can not get replies from Getter in a timely fashion, we still want to preserve partial results. Controller will tell each Getter to gracefully shutdown. Each getter in return will send a Done message to controller by which will controller will deregister the sender(!)

### Detailed design: Receptionist ###
	The sample maintains a queue and dispatches requests one by one to the controller. A more concurrent design is possible

