---
layout: post
title: "Codeforces Notes"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---

700A: As Fast As Possible
-----------
I failed to solve this problem during contest. I thought the bus had to take students to the end and then head back

Insights
--------

  1. To be able to minimize the time, all students should arrive at the same time. Otherwise, the bus could have headed back earlier and
helped the slowest one

  2. Since input is 10k max, we can do a bsearch on number. Because we have the insight 1), the related search would be the final time every
one arrives. Note that our epsilon is 10^-6

  3. For each group, we need to know the moment the bus starts turning back, and the positin of the bus, with this info, we can calculate
the next turning back point, and turning back time. Note that for last group, it does not need to turn back at all, it will just carry
every one to the end.


301A: Yaroslav and Sequence
---------

Insights
-------

  1. Consider the segment with rightmost index at i, obviously, each i will be flipped at most once, i.e. O(n) flip times, 

  2. Because the middle one got filped each time, for each flip we need to update all segment sums

  3. we flip only if the segment sum is negative. 

Therefore, we try O(n) times, calculate all segment sums, and flip the one with the smalleset negative values, the flip process will update
all affected entries - O(n^3), we can break early if there is no more negative segment left


645A: Amity Assessment
--------
The DFS-state approach is too complex to code for this problem. For this problem, we notice that no matter how we move, the relative
clockwise order of tiles remain same. 

Therefore, it is enough just to form a 3 element string from inputs (minus the x), and see if we can rotate the from to form to


592C: The Big Race
---------
If it will be a tie if, L is within the range of (i* lcm(w, b), i* lcm(w, b) + min(w, b))

So total # = (t / lcm(w, b) - 1)  * min(w,b) +  min(w,b) - 1 + tailBand

Note that need to handle the case where min(w, b) > T
