---
layout: post
title: "CS Academy Notes"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [csa]
---

Round 35:  Least Even Digits
--------
A very hard problem for me!!!

if x has no even digit, infinite

Upper bound: find the last even digit, increase by 1, and make a suffix of 1s. This gives B + 1
Proof: by decreameing 111s, it will reduce # of even digits. However, B+ 1 has strictly less even digits than X

Lower bound: 
No obvious insight possible. Consider a brute force-ish solution to find A-1, the highest number that has < even digits than X
1. we know A - 1 must share a prefix with X
2. we know the digit immediately after the prefix must be less (but we don't which the exact number)
3. after that, the suffix should be a list of 9s, so as not to introduce even digits


Round 33: Div 3
--------
standard greedy solution. Note that we can prove by induction that cost(x) >= cost(y) if x > y. Watch out for the case where n = 2!!!


Round 32: Subarray Partition
---------
scan through to calc right[i]
scan through again, maintain currentSegEnd, update it at each right[i], if currentSegEnd = right[i], we know it is the end of the new segment 

Round 32: Square Root Frac (Easy)
--------
No obvious insight. Consider a brute-force solution. We know the number is < 10^5, we just brute force the sqaure of it, and see if the result is an integer


Round 31: Recursive String
---------
need to precompute count(N), so that we can compute char(N, K)

Round 31: Second Minimum
---------
The key insight is that the second smallest will face the smallest in one of the binary floating process!
use 1-2, 3-4,...binary search to find the min index, and for each comparsion, we append the winner the loser

and then we find the min number, in the loser indices, the smallest number. Note we have only (logN) candidates, i.e., we can do a bubble sort-ish comparsion

Round 30: Constant Sum
---------
for each number, we just need to keep track of all added so far - total/(N-1) + total add to i/(N-1)

Round 30: Prefix Free Subset
---------
My idea: 

if a is the longest prefix of b, we build an edge a-> b. Therefore, we can build a forest. after that, we bsearch on the length of the max suffix, and iterate on the forest, what the max # of no-parent childs it can have, s.t. the length of work < our target.

Note that longest(K) <= longest(K+1), and answer(K +1) is also good for answer(k), such monotonic relationships suggests sorting, and in-turn, greedily iterative methods!!!

So we start by adding shortest strings one by one to the potential. The moment the new string run into a prefix conflict, we replace its prefix with the new string. Repeat until we reach size K

How to prove this actually works???
