---
layout: post
title: "CS Academy Notes" 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [csa]
---

Round 60: Digit Permutation
-----------
Note that for topologic sort, after each dfs call, even if you start with a node without incoming edge, the component may not be traversed fully yet!!! A counter example is a -> b <- c. C is not touched after we did a -> b

This is not a problem will not occur if 
	1. the graph is a tree (only 1 node with incoming endge 0)
	
	2. undirected, flood fill problems

	3. a depends on b, i.e., b should be printed first

However, in this problme I chose a < b => a -> b, i.e., a should be printed first. This means I should reverse the orddr until the whole traverse is over!!!

To assign 0, we can just start with 1, and skip it when we reach the 0 node in the final list. Because the 0 node  has no incoming edge, it will not cause conflict.


Round 60: Card Groups
----------
This is an example of meet in the middle, a search technique I see for the first time!!!

2^40 is not too huge, but still huge enough to not apply direct brute force search. Meet in the middle will reduce complexity to around 2^20 => slightly over 1M!



Round 10: Shifted Diagonal Sum
----------
Just calc all potential diagonals. Suppose we shift to the right by X, and down by Y

Extended question: after the X, Y shift, what is the target diagonal???


Round 10: Subarray Medians
----------
Done in O(N^2)!!!

Official solution
---------
For each i, we can calculate all medians of subarray starting at i


Round 9: Flip Game
---------
Obviously, we need to change all in column 1 to 1. Two options, rows flips to 0, and then col flip, and then col flip

After that, we just do col flip as long as we get more 1s

Note that

1. The order of ops doesn't matter!

2. Each row/col will receive AT MOST one ops

3. Suppose we flip a set of R rows and C cols, the final result is EXACTLY same as flip the complement of these 2 sets. This means that, we don't care which part of first col to filp, the end result will be same! 


Round 9: Array Removal
---------
Reverse the order of ops, and use a union find to keep track of the start of subarrays. and update the max sum as we move
