---
layout: post
title: "CS Academy Notes"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [csa]
---
Round 37: Fantastic 4
--------
Claim: we just need to increament two numbers
Proof: suppose we have an operation of form abbbbc, then it is equivalent of doing bbb, while the value of d is bigger. Therefore, for any optimal sequence of actions, we can apply such transform, until we have only two types of increments left

So we can brute force on all possible two increments choices. For each one
1. increment a, until b is 0, if b is 0 before c, and b, we know b can't be the best choice
2. increament b, then, increment a twice, repeat, until we have c or d < 2
3. increment b once, and then increament once

Round 37: Reconstruct Graph
---------
Order by the depth, then we know 
1. the depth should be continuous
2. no given edge connects depth >= 2
3. each node has at least one edge connecting to a depth -1 node
4. Only 1 node with depth 0!!!

so for each node,
ways = 2^ (nodes of same level - existing same level edge)  * (2^ nodes of last level -1 if no connection, or 2^nodes of last level not conect) 


Round 36: Socks Pairs
--------
1. pick one sock for each color
2. start from min to max, check colors of odd #s
3. check the remaing color of even #s

Round 36: Tree Nodes Sets
----------
Keep track of number of insertions and deletions, and traverse down the graph. Note because all ops for the ancestors are perfomed before i, at each step there is no valid delete left

Alteratively, we can keep track of a stack for each x!!! and x is only if the last one is add


Round 57: Foxes on a Wheel
----------
Distince between each node is either 1 or 2. So we just try greedily fit as many 1 pairs as possible. The remaining will be 2 distance.

However, when we assign first choice, we have either go left or right, we need to try both, since we can't prove which side is better!!!

Round 57: Distinct Palindromes
----------
How to calcualte the # of pandlndromic subsequence with duplicate:
```
#(l, r) = 0  if l > r
= 1 if l = r
= #(l+1, r) + #(l, r-1) - #(l+1, r-1) if s(l) != s(r), i.e., (L,R) can't be border
= (#(l+1, r) + #(l, r-1) - #(l+1, r-1)) + 1 + #(l+1, r-1)  if s(l) = s(r), i.e., (L,R) can be boarder
```

In the distinct case, first 3 cases are still valid!!! because s(l) != s(r), we know distinct pa starts at l must be different from distinct pa ends at r

in s(l) = s(r) case, when will adding a new boarding not introduce a new pa?
Answer: patterns like, a...a..M..a..a, i.e., Ma is introduced twice at at different (L,R)s. We will have to consider a clear representitive of each class, (L,R) is too coarse grained.

So #(L, R, c) = 2 + sum of (#(L-1, R-1, a-z)) => empty + cc + all inner subsequence padded with a when S(L) = S(R) = c

Note to construct distinct, we can either same last char + different border, or different last char + same border


Round 35: Equal Sums
---------
solution is trivial if a[i,j] we know sum of row(i) and sum of col(j) < maxV, i.e., we delay that only if one of them does not satfisfy. 
Note there are max 2N -1 constarints, at each iteration, we will satify at least 1 constraint. Therefore, the loop continues for 2 * N -1 times

I had problem proving why this always works!!!

Claim: either all costR(i) = 0 and costC(j) = 0, or exists (i, j) s.t. costR(i) > 0 && costC(j) > 0 
If not, then there exists costR(i) > 0 and no costC(j) > 0. However, note that sum of costR(i) = sum of costC(j) in the initial state, and at each step we increase both by the same value. This means both will reach 0 at the same time

Implmenetaion
----------
Calculate sumR(i) and sumC(j), use a two-pointer method to increase both the min of cost


Round 34: Max Or Subarray
------------
two pointer scan to keep track of right most i, where we see 1s. Every time we see a new number, we update the list, and calculate the result number, and index intervals 

Round 34: Minimize Max Diff
-----------
WLOG, assume it is strictly increasing. then we know, removing element will not decrease the maximal, unless the maximum themsevles are taken out.

For the ease of processing, we can convert the original array to 0, d1, d2, ...,dn and find the longest interval between the two max d(i). If intervenl + K < N, we can not reduce the d1

Therefore, we do a span size = n-k scan, using a two pointer approach, and keep track of the maximal diff. Or we can use a dequeue to implement this.
