---
layout: post
title: "On JVM GC"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [jvm, interview]
---

### Concepts
* safe point: points where you can pause user thread,i.e., needed for GC
* safe area: for sleep or blocked threads. In the code, reference relationship won't change

### GC roots

* referred by local variables and operand stacks in jvm stack frame
* method area, referred by class static
* method area, referred by constant
* local method stack, referred by JNI

### Copying GC

* Use only half of space, gc, and then move the survior into the other regen
* Often used by new gen,e.g.,  Serial, ParNew, Parrallel Scanvenge (at new gen), Serial old (for old gen)

### Compacting GC
* move live objects toward one end of the heap
* may use a table of object handles, so that only handle -> actual actual address needs updated during copyign

### Mark and Sweep GC
* Separate of mark phase and sweep stage (and potentially compact stage to defrag), often used for old gen
* For each unreferenced objects, need to also mark if the finalizer has been run or not. The sweep phase will include finalization. Therefore, object may be resurrected by finalizer which makes the object reachable, and GC can not decide if change the object back to reachable to unreachable until after all resurrectable objects' finalizers are run
* Parallel Scanvenge at old gen, Parallel old, 

### CMS
* shortest stop time.
* tag objects directed referenced by GC roots
* use GC root tracing to tag all garbages, user thread still running
* fix changed introduced during the concurrent tag stage
* concurrently use tag-cleanup to clean the garbage object, user thread . By default, will defrag first
* By default GC thread 3 = (CPU + 3) /4

### G1 algo

* jdk9 default, separate heap into same size regions
* Every region has a Remembmered Set to record
* similar steps as CMS: init tag, concurrent tag, final tag, filter and recycle. Note that in the last step it will pause the user thread, and will instead recycle region only based on how much gc pause user wants

### Method area gc
Decide if constant and types are still in use. Need to satify ALL of

* all instance are gced
* the ClassLoader for this type is gced. Hence, types (not its instances!) loaded by the bootstrap classloader is never gced
* java.lang.Class object for that type is not referenced/unreachable at all


### Generational GC

The young generation is divided into 3 spaces.
* Eden
* From Survior
* To Survivor

* The majority of newly created objects are located in the Eden space.
* After a GC in the Eden space, the objects are piled up into the Survivor space, where other surviving objects already exist.
* If Eden + From Surivior obj size < To Survivor , move them to to surivior, otherwise, to old gen directly. increase these object age by 1, when it hits age 15, they enter old gen
* after minor GC, if Eden is not enough to for the new object, the new object goes to old gen directly
*  > To Surivior half size, and with equal age, any objects older than this age  enter the old gen
* when doing minor GC, will determin if old gen's max continious space > total object sizes in the new gen, this is ONE of the steps of deciding if we should do full gc instead

### Bump the pointer(BP) vs TLABs (Thread-Local Allocation Buffers)

* BP just keep track of top pointer in Eden, and see if the new object can fit it in before updating the pointer
* But in a multi-thread case, BP will cause lock contention. Therefore, TLAB gives each thread a small, thread-local space in Eden

### Old gen obj refering to young gen

* Use a 512 byte card table to record which old gen objects are referring to young gen
* managed by a write barrier

### Train algorithm

* each gen divided into blocks of same size
* each gc runs only on one block
* for objects promoted to older gen, they are added to the tail of the older gen's train
