---
layout: post
title: "On Salary Negotiation"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [interview]
---

Suppose you are a hiring manager, what negotiation tactics your counterpart may use?

* Make sure you negotiate. Ask for some time to think about it before making a decision 
  * Only AFTER they really like you, AFTER the interview. Most likely via email rather than real time 
  * Negotiation is an important knowledge discovery skill at work. Good way/time to demonstrate it.
* Giving out current salary is debatable, giving a range is fine 
* Have basic idea on expected range. Do not get surprised or become unsure
* Do not get emotional, e.g., 
  * using another person's salary as reference explicitly
  * Avoid "I think", "I feel", "I need"
  * Hardline on your expectation.
* You can pick up (easily) $5,000 in salary negotiations. The salary part is actually not THAT huge in the total compensation of the employee
  * Even if number itself can not change, you can ask for other form of concession, e.g., project assignments, travel opportunities, professional development opportunities

### Common arguments

* Q: "I really need a number to move the process forward."/"This form needs a number."
* A: Focus on discovering fits and mutual interests. Giving out number, as discussed above, will compromise your position, although in the end you may have no choice 

* Q: "We want to figure out whether you’re an appropriate candidate for the position"
* A: Then dive deep with it 

* Q: "I have to go to $EXTERNAL_AUTHORITY to get approval of that."
* A: Refocus the discussion on things which are within the hiring manager's personal authority.

### References

* [9 Things to Never Say During a Salary Negotiation](https://hired.com/blog/candidates/9-things-never-say-salary-negotiation/)
* [Salary Negotiation: Make More Money, Be More Valued](https://www.kalzumeus.com/2012/01/23/salary-negotiation/)
