---
layout: post
title: "Common TCP problems"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [interview]
---

#### Terms
* C: client
* S: server
* A: active
* P: passive
* ssthresh: slow-start threshold 
* FR: fast retransmit
* FCQ: full connection q


#### Problem

* Why we need 3 network calls during init handshake, and 4 to terminate?
  * S needs to ensure that C gets the ACK
  * During the second FIN, the server can not merge it because it needs to send remaining data. The first FIN only ensures that C has no remaining data. 
* What are possible reasons of many TIME_WAIT? Why wait 2 MSL?
  * TIME_WAIT is A side's (normally client) state after receives FIN from P side (normally server) and replied ACK
  * Client has to wait 2 * MSL so that server's resend FIN will timeout, 2 * MSL is the time for server to try FIN twice (first time being the normal try). Otherwise, the server's FIN may go into the next session
  * Normally MSL is between 30s to 2 mins
* What are possible reasons of many CLOSE_WAIT? 
  * A state for P (normally server). When A sends FIN and P doesn't not receive the ACK, it will remain established. Needed so that client can ACK all on-the-fly but after FIN data. will set K+1 as ACK number. 
  * A common problem is not closing the connection from client (while the client side maybe closed due to long idleness)
* TCP congestion control, how is it done? How does tcp decide there is congestion?
  * TCP tahoe: double frames sent until we reach ssthresh, and after that we just send 1 more than before. 
  * To avoid the stampede effect. Once congestion is reached (detected by loss of packet), we will FR and halve the ssthresh.
  * FR receives a later frame, it will just ACK the last one it is expecting
  * Note that different algos, sets different value to the initial window size 
* Suppose A and B established connection with no data sent, and then B restarts, what is the state of conneciotn on A? How to get rid of/move on from this state?
  * A will remain established, and recycled by the OS after timeout
* Half connection Q vs Full conneciton Q
  * FCQ is for ESTABLISHED state
  * If you have many SYN-RCVD, maybe a sign of SYN flood DDoS. Connection is now to half-opened state inside the half-connection queue
* When C starts first handshake but S is unable to process, what does S return?
  * S will resend syn+ack in a timed way, forces the client to think the original ACK is lost, so just retry.

