---
layout: post
title: "High Output Management"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [interview, pm]
---

Reading notes on this famous book by Andy Grove 

* Manager is responsible for the output of the neighboring orgs they influence
* Leverage is best done via information gathering, decision making, and "nudging" others by providing suggestions
* For mission-oriented meeting, the meeting chair should be responsible that stakeholders are well prepared
* Centralized for leverage, decentralized for speed
* The author favors matrix managment structure, one for functional, one for mission.
  * The decision making will be done via this peer group
* When complexity, uncertainty, and ambiguity is low, the behavior is influenced by the expectations, when they are high, culture is the main driver. Which is more suitable depends on the context
  * However, when user's focus is more on the self-interest rather than group interest, low CUA means people will be driven by incetives, and such people are not manageable in high CUA
* It is not a problem if people left for money or perks. It is a problem when they feel unheard or unappreciated
  * When people want to quit, just listen. Don't argue. Wait until the prepared part is let out, so the real issue will emerge
  * Ask for time before you come back with solution
* Pair the the output indicator with the quality indicator
  * Measure output not activity
* Batch up issues and questions to reduce interruption
* No more than 8 people for decision making meetings. No more than 25% of time spend on ad-hoc mission meetings
* turning the workplace into a playing field where subordinates become athletes dedicated to performing at the limit of their capabilities
* Don't make friend with people you manage if you find it hard to deliver a hard performance review. Otherwise, it is OK
* You need to be optimist to build a product, but that also means you are more likely to ignore bad news 
* For conflicts, for each opinion pick the lead, and form a meeting with their lowest common ancestor to break ties
  * Don't make your own decision
  * Make sure you get involved
  * Breaking tie also means the conflicting sides give up responsibility
* People follow company values way more than strategy

### Running meetings

* Mission-oriented meeting: solve one problem. It should have no more than eight people. After this it is hard to reach a consensus. Once the meeting is over it is the responsibility of the chairman to send minutes that summarize the discussion that occurred, the decision made and the actions to be taken.
* Operato reviews: process-oriented,i.e., scheduled at regular intervals, present results to people not related to the area. Supervisor should ask questions
