---
layout: post
title: "Be Professional"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [interview, pm]
---

### How to act in scenarios

* You are in a position of authority and need to issue an unpopular decision from your supervisor
  * just issue the decision, espeicially ones applying to everyone and/or the decision is from your supervisor
* Sudden bad news/crisis Options:
  1. From competitors, find their weakness to exchange, or escalate that into a common/general problem to shift focus
  2. From public/users, transparent on all known
  3. Product, slient/fallback/stay low.
  4. Note often these things appear together. Need to identify which is the main one
* Authority issues a decision you deemed incorrect
  * Once the boss made the decision, it is our job to fulfill the vision within the boss's framework. Don't expect to influence the boss too much on the decision. In general, do not try to change people
  * You may disagree, but have to commit
* Rejected by the authority in front of your subordinates
  * Know that the authority often has a different context - thus, complaining only shows that you are narrow minded
  * One way is to not talk about that, and let time dilute the effect
* Sudden incidents need to address
  * If incidents from external, focus on that as it brings more impact. If it is internal, emphasize on it will give a (false) impression of internal disorganization
* Got blamed for things out of your scope
  * explain that not within your scope
  * offer your solution - put more emphasis on what you can do to help solve the problem.
* Commanded by bosses's boss directly
  * Should obey the command
  * Explain current context including boss's direction
  * Let the boss know the change and command as soon as time permits
* Someone wants to gossip with you
  * Be very explict you are not interested
  * Change topic
  * If keeps happening, report to his manager

### REMEMBER

* Shut up on issues related to money and people management - that is the management's job
* Importance is to bring value to the boss. Do not use threatening with resigning and active rejection
* Don't mention things you hear in different locations, at least don't frame as such
* NEVER complain your company or your team's task in front your subordinates and stop the complaints at you! However, it is OK to complain to your boss!
* Corrective/negative feedback should be executed by the direct supervisor, even if it is from upper management
