---
layout: post
title: "Coding set 2" 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [interview, coding]
---

[Source](https://www.interviewcake.com/all-questions/python)

All space requirements here include the stack space for recursive call

* Suppose we have a sorted index that has been rotated, find the index of smallest values
  * O(logN) run time. O(1) space
  * Return 0 if the index is unrotated
* Given an array, find the two numbers such that they sum to something closest to the target number
  * Variation: what if as clost as possible with flexible numbers to sum?
* Knapsack problems with space reuse
  * Variation 1: given weight, find max value of unlimited number of defined types of weights and values
  * Variation 2: coin denomination problem
  * Variation 3: 0/1 knapsack - note this is harder than integer knapsack
* Takes a message as a list of characters and reverses the order of the words in place. O(n) time, O(1) space
* Radix sort an array in place. Duplicate may exist
* Given two eggs, find the highest floor an egg can be dropped from without breaking. Finish check on 100 floors no more than 14 steps
* Given a list of n+ 1 numbers, each with [1, n], find one integer that appears more than once. O(nlogn) run time, O(1) space. Don't destory the input
  * Variation 1: returns all duplicates instead of 1
  * Hard: O(n) run time
* You have a function rand7() that generates a random integer from 1 to 7. Use it to write a function rand5() that generates a random integer from 1 to 5.
  * O(1) space. Worst case time infinite
  * Variation: implement rand7() with rand5(). Again, O(1) space, infinite run time worst case
* Given two list of customer ids as the sequence placing orders, and a third list of serving orders. Test if ids each list are first-come first served
  * Custom orders may duplicate. O(n) time, O(1) space
* Given an undirected graph with maximum degree DD, find a graph coloring using at most D+1D+1 colors. O(1) space
* Write a function that takes as an input a list of sorted lists and outputs a single sorted list with all the items from each list.
