---
layout: post
title: "Coding set 1" 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [interview, coding]
---

[Source](https://www.interviewcake.com/all-questions/python)

All space requirements here include the stack space for recursive call

* Compute ways to make amount from different denominations. Each type infinite. Linear space
* Two rectangles with edges parallels to x-y axis. Calculate the intersection rectangle if there is any. Constant time and constant space.
 * What if we had a list of rectangles and wanted to find all the rectangular overlaps between all possible pairs of two rectangles within the list
 * What if we had a list of rectangles and wanted to find the overlap between all of them, if there was one? 
* Check if a binary tree is a BST. Gotcha
 * input tree has duplication
 * int.Min and int.Max could be part of the value
* Second largest item in a BST. O(h) time, O(1) space
* Write a function kth_to_last_node() that takes an integer kk and the head_node of a singly-linked list, and returns the kkth to last node in the list. 
  * O(1) space, and O(n) time
  * Variation: What if n is huge and k is small?
* Write a recursive function for generating all permutations of an input string. Return them as a set. There might be duplicate chars in the string
* Write an efficient function that tells us whether or not an input string's openers and closers are properly nested, including {,(, ['s AND quotes
* Write a function get_products_of_all_ints_except_at_index() that takes a list of integers and returns a list of the products.
  * Subproblem 1: you are not allowed to use division
  * Subproblem 2: you are allowed to use division
* Given a list of integers, find the highest product you can get from three of the integers. Defend against overflow
  * Subproblem 1: What if we wanted the highest product of 4 items?
  * Subproblem 2: What if we wanted the highest product of kk items?
* Write a class TempTracker with these methods. Note temperator has a fixed range
  * insert()—records a new temperature
  * get_mode()—returns a mode of all temps we've seen so far
  * O(1) for each operation, space at amortized O(1) after n operations
