---
layout: post
title: "Style: toward Clarify and Grace - Notes"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [mgmt, comm]
--- 

### Chapter 3

* With every sentence we write, we have to strike the best compro­ mise between the principles of local clarity and directness that we discussed in Chapter 2, and the principles of cohesion that fuse separate sentences into a whole discourse. But in that compromise, we must give priority to those features of style that make our discourse seem cohesive, those features that help the reader organize separate sentences into a single, unified whole.
* To lead your reader to whatever will seem new to that reader, you have to begin that sentence with something that you can reasonably assume that reader already knows. How you begin sentences, then, is crucial to how easily your readers will understand them, not individually, but as they constitute a whole passage. 
* To end a sentence well, we need only decide which of our ideas is the newest, probably the most complex, and then imagine that complex idea at the end of its own sentence
* We can create a topic out of the object of a verb if we shift that object to the beginning of its sentence, before the subject
 * I cannot explain the reasons for this decision to end the treaty. 
 * The reasons for this decision to end the treaty, I cannot explain. 
* We can also put topics in introductory phrases
 * As for abortion, it is not clear how the Supreme Court will rule. 
 * In regard to regulating religious cuits, we must proceed cautiously. 
* The most important concern of a writer, then, is not the individual topics of individual sentences, but the cumulative effect of the sequence of topics. 
* Long sentences may not announce topics often enough or clearly enough to guide us through a multitude of ideas. We need topics as thematic signposts to help us assemble ideas in individual sentences and clauses into cohesive discourse. 
* The secret to a clear and readable style is in the first five or six words of every sentence. At the beginning of every sentence, locate your reader in familiar territories
* Sometimes, we simply switch the subject and complement, especially when what follows the linking verb be refers to something already mentioned 
 * The source of the American attitude toward rural dialects is more interesting [than something already mentioned].  
 * More interesting [than something already mentioned] is the source of the American attitude toward rural dialects. ' 
* If you have a very long subject that does not allow you simply to switch it to the end of the clause, you can occasionally turn it into an introductory clause, allowing you to construct two shorter topics
* Put in the subject/topic of your sentences ideas that you have already mentioned, or ideas that are·so familiar to your reader that if you state them at the beginning of a sentence, you will not surprise anyone. 
* Among groups of related sentences, keep their topics con­ sistent, if you can. They don't have to be identical, but they should constitute a string that your readers will take to be focused. 
* You may find yourself using nominalizations as topics because those nominalizations refer to ideas in sentences that went before. That is an important use of nominalizations: to sum up in one phrase actions you have just mentioned so that you can comment on them
* Run a line under the first five or six words of every sentence (in fact under the subject of every verb in every clause, if you can do it). Read the phrases you underlined straight through. If any of them seems clearly outside the general set of topics, check whether it refers to ideas mentioned toward the end of the previous sentence. If not, consider revising. 
* we can make our prose more immediate, more available to the reader, if in those sentences we can also make the reader the topic of a sequence of sentences. 
* Generally, use the beginning of your sentences to refer to what you have already mentioned or knowledge that you can assume you and your reader readily share.
 * Of all the wars in American history, none has exceeded the Civil War in the huge number of wounded and dead. The memory of this terrible carnage is one of the reasons for the animosity be­ tween North and South today. 


### Chaper 4

* Shift less important information to the left. One way to revise for emphasis is to move unimportant phrases away from the end of a sentence to expose what you want to emphasize
* Occasionally, when we shift a phrase, we may have to separate subjects from verbs or verbs from objects. This sentence ends weakly. To create better emphasis, we put that short, less important modifier before the longer, more important object, even if we have to split the object from its verb:
 * No one can explain why that first primeval super atom exploded and thereby created the universe in a few words. 
 * No one can explain in a few words why that first primeval super­ atom exploded and thereby created the universe. 
* As we have seen, the older information should come first, the newer last. When it doesn't, we can often reverse the order of subjects and what follows the verb: 
 * Those questions relating to the ideal system for providing instruction in home computers are just as confused. 
 * Just as confused are those questions relating to the ideal system for providing instruction in home computers. 
* A way to recover the appropriate emphasis is to break the sentence in two, either just before or just after that important idea. Then revise the new sentences so that you guide your reader to the crucial information. That often means you have to isolate the point of a long sentence by putting it into a shorter sentence of its own
* If you begin too many sentences with "There is" or "There are," your prose will become flat-footed, lacking movement or energy. But you can open a sentence with there in order to push to the end of that sentence those ideas that the next sentences will build on. 
* when you introduce a technical term for the first time or even a familiar but very important term, design the sentence it appears in so that you can locate that term at the end, in its stress, never at the beginning, in its topic, even if you have to invent a sentence simply for the sake of defining or emphasizing that term.
