---
layout: post
title: "Minerva: Airbnb's Business Metrics Platform"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [arch]
--- 

### Pain points

* New tables were created manually on top of `core_data` tables every other day, but there was no way to tell if similar tables already existed. 
* The complexity of our warehouse continued to grow, and data lineage became impossible to track. When a data issue upstream was discovered and fixed, there was no guarantee that the fix would propagate to all downstream jobs. 
* We heard complaints from decision makers that different teams reported different numbers for very simple business questions, and there was no easy way to know which number was correct.
* core_data standardized table consumption and allowed users to quickly identify which tables to build upon. On the other hand, it burdened the centralized data engineering with the impossible task of gatekeeping and onboarding an endless stream of new datasets into new and existing core tables. Furthermore, pipelines built downstream of core_data created a proliferation of duplicative and diverging metrics. We learned from this experience that table standardization was not enough and that standardization at the metrics level is key to enabling trustworthy consumption. After all, users do not consume tables; they consume metrics, dimensions, and reports.


### Use cases

* Minerva’s product vision is to allow users to “define metrics once, use them everywhere”. That is, a metric created in Minerva should be easily accessed in company dashboarding tools like Superset, tracked in our A/B testing framework ERF, or processed by our anomaly detection algorithms to spot business anomalies, just to name a few. 
* Data Catalog
  * When a user interfaces with the Dataportal and searches for a metric, it ranks Minerva metrics at the top of the search results. The Dataportal also surfaces contextual information, such as certification status, ownership, and popularity so that users can gauge the relative importance of metrics. For most non-technical users, the Dataportal is their first entry point to metrics in Minerva.
* Data Exploration 
  * Upon selecting a metric, users are redirected to Metric Explorer, a component of the Dataportal that enables out-of-the-box data exploration. On a metric page, users can see trends of a metric with additional slicing and drill down options such as `Group By` and `Filter`
* A/B Testing
  * Unfortunately, the metrics repo couldn’t be used for other use cases beyond experimentation, so we decided to integrate Minerva with ERF so all base events for A/B tests are defined and sourced from Minerva.
* Executive Reporting
* Data Analysis
  * Minerva data is exposed to Airbnb’s custom R and Python clients through Minerva’s API. This allows data scientists to query Minerva data in a notebook environment with ease


* Minerva takes (normalized) fact and dimension tables as inputs, performs data denormalization, and serves the aggregated data to downstream applications.
* It uses Airflow for workflow orchestration, Apache Hive and Apache Spark as the compute engine, and Presto and Apache Druid for consumption.
* Minerva defines key business metrics, dimensions, and other metadata in a centralized Github repository
* Minerva performs data denormalization efficiently by maximizing data reuse and intermediate joined results.
* Minerva provides a unified data API to serve both aggregated and raw metrics on demand.
* Users define the “what” and not the “how”. The processes by which the metrics are calculated, stored, or served are entirely abstracted away from end users.
* Minerva is focused around metrics and dimensions as opposed to tables and columns.
* When a metric is defined in Minerva, authors are required to provide important self-describing metadata. Information such as ownership, lineage, and metric description are all required in the configuration files



### References

* [How Airbnb Achieved Metric Consistency at Scale](https://medium.com/airbnb-engineering/how-airbnb-achieved-metric-consistency-at-scale-f23cc53dea70)
* [How Airbnb Standardized Metric Computation at Scale](https://medium.com/airbnb-engineering/airbnb-metric-computation-with-minerva-part-2-9afe6695b486)

