---
layout: post
title: "UVa 10038 & 146" 
description: ""
category: 
tags: [how-to-solve-it]
---

10038 itself is trivial, but can you invent new problems based on that?

What if input is 3b instead of 3k,i.e., not wise to fit the set into memory?

1. bloom filter

2. hyperloglog

3. divide and conquer: 
number % size-of-bucket. Each bucket will do exact in-memory count. Return true only if all buckets return true


---------

146:

known: string

unknown: string

condition: unkown is lexically next of known 

Auxiliary problem: no duplicate letter occurance

From unknown: known and unknown may have common prefix. This prefix forms a bucket of potential choices 

=> new auxiliary problem: when will the known and unknow share NO prefix? => known is the last one in the first letter prefix bucket, conversely, unknown is the first one in the first letter prefix bucket

=> What is the last one/first one then? => last one is sorted in reverse order, first one is sorted

=> The uncommon part must be the suffix where its letters are reversely sorted, so we can search for the longest such suffix, and then sort the suffix

------

Solve it differently:

From known/unknown: we know they will have a rank sorted. 

Auxillary problem by dropping part of condition, in this case, they are neighbors => devise a general algo to determine the rank based on string, and vice versa(inventor paradox)

rank to string => similar to number, calculate which bucket the string will be in, and the rank within the bucket

string to rank => similar to rank to string, calculate the full bucket size BEFORE current prefix char, and then add string to rank of the suffix


---------

Invent new problems: the formed string doenst have to use all letters, i.e., formed strings will not always have the same length n

